# Schema Information

* [Users](db-schema.md#users)
* [Organizations](db-schema.md#organizations)
* [Organization Members](db-schema.md#organization-members)
* [Events](db-schema.md#events)
* [Votes](db-schema.md#votes)

## Users
The Users table stores information on users.

### Schema Definition
```rust
struct User {
  id: i32,
  name: string,
  created_at: DateTimeWithTimeZone
}
```

### Field Descriptions
- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the user. Autogenerated.
- `name`: The (full) name of the user.
- `created_at`: The timestamp when the user was created (when the entry was created). Autogenerated.

## Organizations

### Schema Definition
```rust
struct Organization {
  id: i32,
  name: string,
  data: Json
}
```

### Field Descriptions
- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the organization. Autogenerated.
- `name`: The name of the organization.
- `data`: Other data related to the organization. See [organization.data](db-json.md#organizationdata).

## Organization Members
The OrganizationMembers table is a join table between the Organizations and Users table to describe the many-to-many relationship users are allowed to have with organizations. It also stores information on what the user is allowed to do in the organization.

### Schema Definition
```rust
struct OrganizationMember {
  organization_id: i32,
  user_id: i32,
  user_role: string,
  joined_at: DateTimeWithTimeZone
}
```

### Field Descriptions
- `organization_id`: Primary Key. The id for an organization. References [Organizations](db-schema.md#organizations).
- `user_id`: Primary Key. The id for the user in the organization. References [Users](db-schema.md#users).
- `user_role`: The role of the user in the organization. Specifies their permissions in the organization and creating events.
- `joined_at`: The timestamp when the user joined the organization (when the entry was created). Autogenerated.

## Events

### Schema Definition
```rust
struct Event {
  id: i32,
  event_type: EventType,
  name: String,
  status: StatusOption,
  start_time: DateTimeWithTimeZone,
  end_time: Option<DateTimeWithTimeZone>,
  data: Json,
  created_by_user_id: i32,
  organization_id: i32,
}
```

### Field Descriptions
- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the event. Autogenerated.
- `event_type`: The type of the event. Is an enum type. Can be "motion" or "election".
- `name`: The name for the event.
- `status`: The status of the event. Is an enum type. Can be "active" or "inactive".
- `start_time`: The time when the event(voting) starts.
- `end_time`: The time when the event(voting) ends, if ever.
- `data`: The other data related to the event. See [event.data](db-schema.md#eventdata)
- `created_by_user_id`. The id of the user who created the event. References [Users](db-schema.md#users).
- `organization_id`: The id for the organization this event belongs to. References [Organizations](db-schema.md#organizations).

## Votes

### Schema Definition
```rust
struct Vote {
  id: i32,
  event_id: i32,
  voter_id: i32,
  cast_time: DateTimeWithTimeZone,
  proxy: bool,
  data: Json,
}
```

### Field Descriptions
- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the vote. Autogenerated.
- `event_id`: The event for which this vote was cast. References [Events](db-schema.md#events).
- `voter_id`: The user who cast this vote. References [Users](db-schema.md#users)
- `cast_time`: The time at which this vote was cast (when the entry was created). Autogenerated.
- `proxy`: Whether or not the vote cast was a proxy vote.
- `data`: Other data pertaining to the vote. See [vote.data](db-json.md#votedata)
